sites/blog/content/posts/2022-03-09-how-to-make-a-button-intro/index.mdx, before:

﻿---
title: How to make a button
date: 2022-03-09
excerpt: Writing a good button for your website doesn't need to be hard, this post will show you the way!
image: ./button.svg
tags: ["css", "design", "html", "--css-variables"]
---

import FinalDemo from './source/final';

It feels like making a reusable button that just works for everything should be easy; but if you have never
made one or if you've never had time thoughtfully build one from scratch they can be a plain and simple pain
to maintain.

To save you from scrolling to the end of the post here is what we are working toward:

<FinalDemo id="full-code-example" />
<br />

If you look at the comments in the css you can see the three important parts to how to design reusable and consistent
buttons that work for any and all HTML elements. Those steps consist of:

1. Normalise the element to look as if it were an un-styled span of text (typically I use inline-block however for display).
2. Apply button styling
3. Apply customisation for individual button (as such as color)

Commit message:

applied edits to now the 4 posts

sites/blog/content/posts/2022-03-09-how-to-make-a-button-intro/index.mdx, after:

﻿---
title: How to make a button
date: 2022-03-09
excerpt: Writing a good button for your website doesn't need to be hard, this post will show you the way!
image: ./button.svg
tags: ["css", "design", "html", "--css-variables"]
---

import FinalDemo from './source/final';
import { Link } from "gatsby"

It feels like making a reusable button that just works for everything should be easy; but if you have never
made one or if you've never had time thoughtfully build one from scratch they can be a plain and simple pain
to maintain.

Over the next 3 blog posts we are going to dig into the ins and outs of what it takes to build a re-usable button that
is sure to scale with the ever-increasing needs of your project as it matures. But what is learnt here need not be used
in isolation, there are plenty of other instances in which you want a component to work for any semantically element
and you can use the same principles there too.

Before we start, here is the end result that we are working towards:

<FinalDemo id="full-code-example" />
<br />

If you look at the comments in the css you can see the three important parts to how to design reusable and consistent
buttons that work for any and all HTML elements. Those steps consist of:

1. Normalise the element to look as if it were an un-styled span of text.
2. Apply button styling
3. Apply customisation for individual button (as such as color)

The reasons why we split the styling up into these three stages is for ease of development and for assurance that our
buttons will look correct no matter what elements we end up utilising for the button. Using the correct element for the button
be it an input, button OR anchor is hyper critical if you want to build a website that the users browser and accessibility
tools can understand. It's just not acceptable to have a button with an onclick event that triggers a route change, you
should be giving your users an anchor tag and it shouldn't look any different.

Another more modern flavour to this button is the use of css-variables, which have been used as the core tool for the
application of styles, in <Link to="/blog/2022/03/how-to-make-a-button-customisation/">part 4 - customisation</Link> we
go into depth as to why this is done and all of it's advantages, but to summarise: it allows us to poke values into
our normalisation layer at later points in our style which makes adapting to unique requirements easier + it becomes
a superpower for theming!

Next Up: <Link to="/blog/2022/03/how-to-make-a-button-normalisation/">part 2 - normalisation</Link>
